README.md, before:



# Echo

 **Note:** This project started from [OriginalProject](https://github.com/srujan-nalam/Link-chat-application.git) as a base, but the backend, frontend, and features have been redesigned and implemented according to my vision.
 
Echo is a full stack realtime chat application. You can chat privately or in groups, share images, and manage your profile , all in a responsive dark-themed interface.
while the core features are functional, testing and fine-tuning are still in progress.

## :bulb: Features

- Dark Theme
- Responsive UI
- JWT Authentication
- Private or Group Chat
- Sending Text and Image
- Creating Profile
- Adding Friend or Blocking

## :hammer_and_wrench: Built With

- [Original link]() - Main Language
- [React](https://reactjs.org/) - JavaScript library for UI
- [Zustand](https://zustand.docs.pmnd.rs/) - Global State Management
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) - Node.js Framework
- [Socket.IO](https://socket.io/) - Web Socket
- [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) - CSS Framework
- [Mongodb](https://www.mongodb.com/) - BJSON Database
- [Mongoose](https://mongoosejs.com/) - Database ORM
- [React Icons](https://react-icons.github.io/react-icons/) - Icon Library
- [Moment](https://momentjs.com/) - Date Formatting
- [Bcrypt](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bcryptjs) - Password encryption
- [JS Cookie](https://www.npmjs.com/package/js-cookie) - Cookie
- [Cloudinary](https://www.cloudinary.com/) - Image Storage

## Status
Echo is alive and functional — refinement, testing, and polish coming soon.

Commit message:

Feat: add Typing indicator and Online indicator in private chats

README.md, after:



# Echo

 **Note:** This project started from [OriginalProject](https://github.com/srujan-nalam/Link-chat-application.git) as a base, but the backend, frontend, and features have been redesigned and implemented according to my vision.
 
Echo is a full stack realtime chat application. You can chat privately or in groups, share images, and manage your profile , all in a responsive dark-themed interface.
while the core features are functional, testing and fine-tuning are still in progress.

## :bulb: Features

- Dark Theme
- Typing indicator in private chat
- Online status indicator in private chat
- Responsive UI
- JWT Authentication
- Private or Group Chat
- Sending Text and Image
- Creating Profile
- Adding Friend or Blocking

## :hammer_and_wrench: Built With

- [Original link]() - Main Language
- [React](https://reactjs.org/) - JavaScript library for UI
- [Zustand](https://zustand.docs.pmnd.rs/) - Global State Management
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) - Node.js Framework
- [Socket.IO](https://socket.io/) - Web Socket
- [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) - CSS Framework
- [Mongodb](https://www.mongodb.com/) - BJSON Database
- [Mongoose](https://mongoosejs.com/) - Database ORM
- [React Icons](https://react-icons.github.io/react-icons/) - Icon Library
- [Moment](https://momentjs.com/) - Date Formatting
- [Bcrypt](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bcryptjs) - Password encryption
- [JS Cookie](https://www.npmjs.com/package/js-cookie) - Cookie
- [Cloudinary](https://www.cloudinary.com/) - Image Storage

## Status
Echo is alive and functional — refinement, testing, and polish coming soon.
